more text (#1317)
simplex-chat/simplex-chat: blog/20221108-simplex-chat-v4.2-security-audit-new-website.md

[Trail of Bits](https://www.trailofbits.com/about), a US based security and technology consultancy whose clients include big tech companies, governmental agencies and major blockchain projects, had 2 engineers reviewing SimpleX Chat, specifically [simplexmq library](https://github.com/simplex-chat/simplexmq) that is responsible for all cryptography and networking of SimpleX platform.

2 medium and 2 low severity issues were identified, all of which require a high difficulty attack to exploit – the attacker would need to have a privileged access to the system, may need to know complex technical details, or must discover other weaknesses to exploit them. 3 of these issues are already fixed in v4.2.

Overall we have SimpleX Chat in a decent shape, with most reviewed areas other than identified issues being marked as "satisfactory", and authentication and access controls as "strong".

The issues are explained below, and the full security review is available via [this link](https://github.com/trailofbits/publications#security-reviews).

> We are hugely thankful to Trails Of Bits and their engineers for the work they did, helping us identify these issues and strengthening the security of SimpleX Chat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are hugely thankful to Trails Of Bits and their engineers for the work they did, helping us identify these issues and strengthen the security of SimpleX Chat.
```

### Medium severity issues

##### X3DH key exchange for double ratchet protocol

We made a mistake implementing X3DH key exchange - the key derivation function was not applied to the result of concatenation of three DH operations. The attack to exploit this mistake has high complexity, as it would require compromising one of private keys generated by the clients, and also it would only affect forward secrecy until break-in recovery happens (after both sides sent some messages).

Please note that SimpleX does not perform X3DH with long-term identity keys, as the SimpleX protocol does not rely on long-term keys to identify client devices. Therefore, the impact of compromising a key will be less severe, as it will affect only the secrets of the connection where the key was compromised.

> This issue is fixed in version 4.2 in [this PR](https://github.com/simplex-chat/simplexmq/pull/548/files), and if both clients are updated the key exchange will not have this vulnerability. Also, previously created connections should be secure as long as both sides sent the messages, but if you believe that your private key(s) could have been compromised (for example, if you used SimpleX Chat since before we added database encryption), I recommend that you create the new connections with your contacts, at least with the security-critical ones. Simply rotating the connection queue that was added in version 4.2 will not be sufficient, as this rotation does not re-initialize the ratchets - this is something we will be adding in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue is fixed in version 4.2 in [this PR](https://github.com/simplex-chat/simplexmq/pull/548/files), and if both clients are updated the key exchange will not have this vulnerability. Also, previously created connections should be secure as long as both sides sent the messages, but if you believe that your private key(s) could have been compromised (for example, if you used SimpleX Chat since before we added database encryption), we recommend that you create the new connections with your contacts, at least with the security-critical ones. Simply rotating the connection queue (manual queue rotation is added in version 4.2) will not be sufficient, as this rotation does not re-initialize the ratchets - this is something we will be adding in the future.
```

The way it works under the hood is similar to how contact addresses work:

1. Group admin or owner creates a long term address that is technically the same as a user address, but it is associated with a specific group.
2. The user that joins the group can identify that this link belongs to some group by an additional piece of data in the link - `{"type": "group", "groupLinkId": "some random string"}`. The ID in this link does not represent a group identity, every time any user creates a new link for the same group, this ID will be different. This ID is used by the joining client to identify the group and automatically accept the invitation when it is received.
3. When admin receives a connection request, they automatically accept it and send invitation link to join the group.
4. The joining user compares the ID in the invitation with the ID in the link, and if they match – automatically accepts the invitation.

After that it works as when joining via the manual invitation - the joining user will be establishing the connection with all existing members to be able to send messages to the group.

> The link can be created via the group page, as shown on the picture.

Reviewer: reminder to add picture

You can join these groups either by opening these links in the app or by opening them in desktop browser and scanning QR code.

> Let me know if you'd like to add some other countries to the list, and join via the apps to share what's going on and ask any questions!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let me know if you'd like to add some other countries to the list. Join via the apps to share what's going on and ask any questions!
```

### Auto-accept contact requests

When somebody connects to you via your long-term address you have to manually accept a connection request (it shows in blue color in the list of chats). The feature that we added in this release allows to configure the app to accept contact requests automatically, and also choose whether this contact should receive your main profile or a random incognito profile (independent of the current app setting), and add an optional auto-reply message.

This feature is useful if you publish your address on your webpage or social profile, and do not want to screen people who want to connect to you. You may want to send a standard welcome message, for example, if it is an online store, and you need to share any information with everybody who contacts you.

Our @simplex account that you connect to when you choose "Connect to developers" in the app used this feature for a long time, and now it is available to mobile app users.

### Some small things

> 1. Change group member role is a very basic feature, but it was only added in this release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Changing group member role is a very basic feature, but it was only added in this release.
```
or "Group member role change"

> 2. You can now mark the whole conversation as unread, for example if you accidentally marked all messages as read and you want to review it later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You can now mark a conversation as unread, for example if you accidentally marked all messages as read and you want to review it later.
```
"the whole" makes it sound like it's all messages are marked as unread

> 3. You now can send stickers and GIFs from Android keyboards, and, finally, the bug with backspace button is resolved as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Send stickers and GIFs from Android keyboards, and, finally, the bug with backspace button is resolved as well.
```
2x "You now can/You can now" together with point 2

### Change your delivery address (BETA)

To manually switch any of your contacts (or a group member to a new server address) enable Developer tools and choose "Change receiving address" on the contact page. As long as they run a new version of the app and online, the switch should only take a few seconds.

> That is a major improvement of metadata privacy of SimpleX protocols, because previously, while we didn't have user identifiers, the pairwise identifiers of messaging queues used to deliver messages were used for as long as you the contact existed. Now these identifiers are temporary, and in a near future we will be adding automatic rotation of these delivery addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is a major improvement of metadata privacy of SimpleX protocols, because previously, while we didn't have user identifiers, the pairwise identifiers of messaging queues used to deliver messages were used for as long as the contact existed. Now these identifiers are temporary, and in a near future we will be adding automatic rotation of these delivery addresses.
```

Please also see the information on our [new website](https://simplex.chat) - it also answers all these questions.

## Help us with donations

Huge thank you to everybody who donated to SimpleX Chat!

We are prioritizing users privacy and security - it would be impossible without your support.

Our pledge to our users is that SimpleX protocols are and will remain open, and in public domain, - so anybody can build the future implementations of the clients and the servers. We are building SimpleX platform based on the same principles as email and web, but much more private and secure.

Your donations help us raise more funds – any amount, even the price of the cup of coffee, makes a big difference for us.

It is possible to donate via:

- [GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/simplex-chat) - it is commission-free for us.
- [OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/simplex-chat) - it charges a commission, and also accepts donations in many crypto-currencies.
- Monero wallet: 8568eeVjaJ1RQ65ZUn9PRQ8ENtqeX9VVhcCYYhnVLxhV4JtBqw42so2VEUDQZNkFfsH5sXCuV7FN8VhRQ21DkNibTZP57Qt
- Bitcoin wallet: 1bpefFkzuRoMY3ZuBbZNZxycbg7NYPYTG

> - please let us know, via GitHub issue or chat, if you want to create a donation in some other cryptocurrency - we will add the address to the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- please let us know, via GitHub issue or chat, if you want to make a donation in some other cryptocurrency - we will add the address to the list.
```
